Let's start with a quick introduction to
Node.js and why we chose it to build our web service.
Your private blockchain is coded in JavaScript.
For the data in the blockchain to be consumable,
we'll add onto it Node.js components.
Now before we decided on Node.js,
we had to decide on a language.
When working with a web service,
there's a number of different language options you can choose from, for example,
Haskell, PHP, Python, Java, JavaScript, or Ruby.
We chose to use JavaScript because,
first, a very popular developer language.
Many of you watching probably already know JavaScript.
So, you can quickly jump into developing
without needing to take extra time to learn language.
Also, there's a wealth of existing tooling already available,
which, as a developer, is really nice.
This means you don't have to reinvent the wheel every time from scratch.
Knowing JavaScript and Node.js are enough to
build programs that interact with many major blockchain APIs,
including Bitcoin, Ethereum, and NEO.
Lastly, though seemingly simple,
JavaScript is a really expressive and powerful language,
hence why it's gained so much popularity in the web development world.
Now, these are the reasons we use.
When building out your own web service and trying to decide what language to use,
keep these considerations in mind.
Are you concerned with the front-end,
the back-end, or both components?
How well is this language maintained?
How well does this language integrate with other systems?
What is its performance like?
Keeping these thoughts in mind will help you narrow down your choices to the best option.
Once we decided JavaScript is our language of choice,
we needed to decide which JavaScript tool to use.
In the end, we chose to use the JavaScript engine, Node.js.
Node is a very popular open-source runtime environment
that executes JavaScript code server side.
Unlike other JavaScript development,
it requires running in a web browser.
Node.js provides a runtime environment directly on the computer.
Node.js is built on Google Chrome's V8 VM engine,
which in turn supports JavaScript in the Chrome browser.
It runs on various platforms such as Windows,
Linux, Unix, and Mac.
In addition to this flexibility,
we focused on Node for this project because Node uses single-threaded,
non-blocking asynchronous programming, which means that it's very memory efficient.
It's adopted by many enterprise companies,
including Walmart, PayPal, and Uber,
meaning, it's very scalable.
As a flourishing open-source community,
constantly creating new modules,
leading to a large ecosystem of open-source libraries.
Lastly, it allows the use of
the same JavaScript code for both front-end and back-end development,
leading to a cleaner codebase.
Now that we've decided to use Node.js to build our web service,
let's set it up on our computer.